# Node.js express.js MongoDB JWT REST API - Basic Project Skeleton


## Getting started

This is a basic API REST skeleton written on JavaScript using async/await. Great for building a starter web API for your front-end (Android, iOS, Vue, react, angular, or anything that can consume an API)

This project is created to help other developers create a **basic REST API in an easy way with Node.js**. This basic example shows how powerful and simple JavaScript can be. Do you want to contribute? Pull requests are always welcome to show more features.

## Features

*   Multiple environment ready (development, production)
*   Custom email/password user system with basic security and blocking for preventing brute force attacks.
*   Compressed responses.
*   Secured HTTP headers.
*   CORS ready.
*   Cache ready (Redis).
*   HTTP request logger in development mode.
*   i18n ready (for sending emails in multiple languages).
*   User roles.
*   Pagination ready.
*   User profile.
*   Users list for admin area.
*   Cities model and controller example.
*   Login access log with IP, browser and country location (for country it looks for the header `cf-ipcountry` that CloudFlare creates when protecting your website).
*   API autogenerated documentation by Postman.
*   API collection example for Postman.
*   Testing with mocha/chai for API endpoints.
*   NPM scripts for cleaning and seeding the MongoDB database.
*   NPM script for keeping good source code formatting using prettier and ESLint.
*   Use of ESLint for good coding practices.
*   Mailer example with Nodemailer and Mailgun.
*   Ability to refresh token
*   JWT Tokens, make requests with a token after login with `Authorization` header with value `Bearer yourToken` where `yourToken` is the **signed and encrypted token** given in the response from the login process.

## Requirements

*   Node.js **10+**
*   MongoDB **3.6+**
*   Redis **5.0+**


### Login credentials

email: `admin@admin.com`\
password: `12345`


## How to install

### Using Git (recommended)

1.  Clone the project from github. Change "myproject" to your project name.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/davellanedam/node-express-mongodb-jwt-rest-api-skeleton.git ./myproject
```

### Using manual download ZIP

1.  Download repository
2.  Uncompress to your desired directory

### Install npm dependencies after installing (Git or manual download)

```bash
cd myproject
npm install
npm update
```

## How to run

```bash
npm run command
```

### Running in development mode (lifting API server)

```bash
npm run dev
```

You will know server is running by checking the output of the command `npm run dev`

```bash
****************************
*    Starting Server
*    Port: 3000
*    NODE_ENV: development
*    Database: MongoDB
*    DB Connection: OK
****************************
```
